**India Driving Dataset (IDD): A Dataset for Exploring Problems of Autonomous Navigation in Unconstrained Environments (Object Detection 47k)** is a dataset for instance segmentation, semantic segmentation, and object detection tasks. It is used in the automotive industry. 

The dataset consists of 46588 images with 507575 labeled objects belonging to 40 different classes including *motorcycle*, *car*, *rider*, and other: *person*, *truck*, *autorickshaw*, *vehicle fallback*, *bus*, *traffic sign*, *bicycle*, *animal*, *traffic light*, *caravan*, *train*, *trailer*, *road*, *parking*, *drivable fallback*, *sidewalk*, *rail track*, *non-drivable fallback*, *curb*, *wall*, *fence*, *guard rail*, *billboard*, *pole*, *polegroup*, *obs-str-bar-fallback*, *building*, *bridge*, *tunnel*, *vegetation*, *sky*, *fallback background*, *unlabeled*, *ego vehicle*, *rectification border*, *out of roi*, and *license plate*.

Images in the IDD: Object Detection dataset have pixel-level instance segmentation annotations. Due to the nature of the instance segmentation task, it can be automatically transformed into a semantic segmentation (only one mask for every class) or object detection (bounding boxes for every object) tasks. There are 4794 (10% of the total) unlabeled images (i.e. without annotations). There are 3 splits in the dataset: *train* (31569 images), *val* (10225 images), and *test* (4794 images). Additionally, every image has information about its ***sequence***, while every object instance has its ***category*** and 4-level label hierarchy: ***level1id***, ***level2id***, ***level3id***,  ***level4id***. Explore them in supervisely labeling tool. The dataset was released in 2018 by the IIIT Hyderabad, India, Intel Bangalore, and University of California, San Diego.

Here is a visualized example for randomly selected sample classes:

[Dataset classes](https://github.com/dataset-ninja/idd-detection/raw/main/visualizations/classes_preview.webm)
